In this lesson we'll be covering how to
search the contents of files as well as
what pipes are and how to use them.
To look for text within a file,
use the grep command.
A typical format of the command is grep,
Space,
a search pattern, Space, the file that
you're searching for the pattern in.
Here are some options that you
can use with a grep command: -i
will perform a case insensitive search,
-c will display the number of
occurrences that it finds in a file,
-n will precede the output with line
numbers, and -v will do an invert match.
This returns lines that do
not match the search pattern.
Let's look at the contents of this file.
Let's search in this file
with the grep command.
You can see that it'll return
all occurrences that it
finds that match that pattern, so
O is contained in Facebook and
O is also contained in jason, so
grep returns those two lines.
If we wanna do an inverse match,
we'll do a -v, or invert the match, and
we'll display all the lines that
do not contain the letter O.
You can see that it's matching case.
To ignore case, use -i.
So now it will return
the line with lowercase user.
You can also combine options.
We'll do -c for count and ignore case.
And grep says there's only
one line that matches user.
And using -n will display which line
number that the match occurs on.
There are some clues as to
what a file might contain.
For instance,
some files will have an extension.
If the file ends in .txt,
chances are it's a text file.
If a file has executable permissions set,
it might be an executable program.
An easy way to determine the type of
a file is to run the file command
against that file.
If it's a text file, it will say that it's
text in the output of the file command.
A binary file is a file that
is in machine readable format and
not a human readable format.
If you run grep against a binary file
it will simply display whether or
not that information was found in the
file, but it will not display the text.
To look at the textual data within
a binary file, use the strings command.
The vertical bar is called a pipe.
You can chain two commands
together with a pipe.
Pipe takes the standard output
from the preceding command and
passes it as the standard input
to the following command.
If the first command
displays error messages,
those will not be passed to
the second command by default.
Error messages are displayed
on standard error.
If you want standard error
to be passed in as input to
the command following the pipe, you can
redirect standard error to standard input.
How to do that was covered in
the io redirection lesson.
Here is a common pattern that
you'll see often in Linux.
There are several commands that allow you
to specify a file on the command line
that is to be used for input.
With grep, for example, you can run grep,
followed by the pattern,
then followed by the follow to uses input.
If you don't supply a file name then
the command will use standard input.
Grep pattern file is the same
as cat file pipe grep pattern.
That's because cat displays the contents
of the file on standard output.
The pipe takes the standard
output from the cat command and
passes it in as a standard
input to the grep command.
Since no file name was specified for
grep to act on,
it takes standard input as its input.
The cut command allows you to
select portions of a file or
to cut out pieces of a file.
Like grep, if file is omitted,
cut will use standard input.
The -d option for cut allows you
to specify a field delimiter,
-f tells cut which field to display.
Let's look for
the string john in this file.
And we can see that grep tells
us two pieces of information,
that it does find that string in that
file and that that file is a binary file.
The file command reports
that it's an audio file, and
it doesn't say anything about text,
so it's not a text file.
You can see that there are a lot of
strings that are just not human readable.
To just display the strings that are human
readable, we'll use the strings command.
And then we could run our search on this.
Strings, giant, steps.
And now we can see the actual data
that the grep command initially found.
The output of the strings command is sent
to the input of the grep command because
we're using a pipe to
chain those two together.
Pipes aren't limited to two commands.
You can chain as many commands
together as you want.
So, let's take the output that is formed
by those two commands and then pipe it
into, let's say, head-1 to display
the first line of output from grep.
Just gonna hit the up
arrow key to repeat that.
Let's use the cut command.
Let's use space as a delimiter.
And let's print the second field.
And that will just give us Coletrane.
Let's say we want to find all users
named Bob in the /etc/passwd file.
The /etc/passwd file just contains a list
all the accounts on the Linux system.
We want to print each account name and
their real name but no other data.
We want to print them in alphabetical
order by account name, and
we want to display them
in a tabular format.
Let's look for Bob in /etc/passwd.
And what we want to do is print
the account name and real name.
However there's other
information in that file.
So, we can use a cut command to
get the information we want.
For example, it looks like there
are fields that are separated by a colon,
so we can use -d and
use the colon as a field delimiter.
And the first field and the fifth field
are containing information that we want.
So we'll use -f1,5.
We also want to sort them
in alphabetical order, so
the sort command can take care of that for
us.
And we want to get rid of
the colon character, so
we can use a command called tr
that translates characters.
So we'll translate the colon
character into a space character.
And we wanna display this
information in a table format.
So we can use the column command
with a -t for table, and
that gets us the result we desire.
Another common use of pipes is to control
how output is displayed to your screen.
If a command produces a significant amount
of output it can scroll off your screen
before you have a chance to view it.
To control the output,
use a pager utility such as more or less.
You've already used these commands
already on files directly, but
keep in mind that they can take
a redirected input as well.
Let's look at /etc/passwd.
And the contents of that file
scrolled past our screen.
So we can use the less command
to page through that file.
And q to quit.
So cat /etc/passwd | less is really
the same as less /etc/passwd,
and that's kinda how we've been
using it up to this point.
However, if you do something like this.
Let's look for bin in /etc/passwd.
That scrolls past our screen,
so we can pipe that to less.
So this is a situation where you
couldn't use less directly on a file,
however using the standard output of a
previous command as the standard input for
the less command is helpful.
In this lesson we learned how to search
the contents of files using the grep
command, how to determine a file's
type using the file command, how to
cut out pieces of a file using the cut
command, how to translate characters with
the tr command, and how to format output
into columns with the column command.
We also talked about the commands more and
less which are pagers.
The important thing to note here is that
there are many small commands that do
one thing well and that you can chain them
together using pipes to do something very
powerful and useful.